# Overview

The entertainment of the films and TV series industry has experienced significant booming growth and genre diversification due to the streaming services’ involvement. The industry benchmarkers express the increasing demand for understanding genre trends to predict future success. This research paper aims to analyze the most common and highly-rated title genres of movies and TV series from 1960 to 2020 and then leverage algorithms to forecast which genres will make successful titles in the future. 

The research focuses on four main aspects. It starts with investigating the most common film genres across different decades, exploring the evolving history of audience preferences and entertainment production trends. The result from the analysis reveals the rise and fall of various genres and provides insights to evaluate the industry landscape. This research also examines the most highly-rated title genres from the same time period throughout the past six decades correspondingly. The third aspect of the study involves using Ordinary Least Squares to analyze the relationship between IMDb and TMDb ratings to find more efficient metrics between those two. In the end, the researcher employs various machine learning models to predict which film genres will be successful in the future. The result forecasts genre success with high accuracy and will be instrumental in guiding filmmakers, producers, and studios in making informed decisions about the types of films they should invest in to improve new titles’ rating scores. 
